Half an hour away from the opens in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Y Ivon Man
with David and Glass.
>> Good morning. Let's get your top stories
today. Stocks across the region slipping
after or amid these fresh concerns over
the Fed's independence. President Trump
denies he is planning to fire Jay Powell
even though he hasn't completely ruled
it out. Meanwhile, Trump says the US is
closing in on trade deals with India and
the EU as allies like Canada and Japan
struggle to hammer out deals of their
own ahead of August 1st. And Kushtard
trades Barbs with seven and I after
ditching its 46 billion takeover bid
[Music]
reversals I guess in some ways is a big
theme of the day when you look at the
top stories whether that's Trump and
Powell and the pulling back not fully uh
on some of the earlier reports that
Powell is about to go. That's reversal
number one. Reversal number two is
really on Kushard and really what that
means for seven and I and of course
reversal then of what's been what almost
a year of negotiations. All that being
said, we're flat across equity markets.
We're going into the thick of earning
season. Of course, the dollar is
catching somewhat of a bid this morning
following of course that drop that we
had uh overnight and certainly the
steepening of the curve was one of the
other themes that emerged last night and
at 112 that's within one basis point of
the uh a three-year high as far as the
twos and 30s are concerned right the
rest of the region looking like this you
have the nick of the Cosby index coming
up on your screens within Japan of
course we'll unpack the seven and I
story in a moment the other big one
which we've yet to touch on but I would
imagine will be key following invid
India following ASML will be earnings
coming out of TSMC. In fact, at these
levels, you know, we should be extremely
close if not already. My producers are
about to check this for me at a record
high on TSMC. More on that in a moment.
Uh overnight, of course, the big move
overnight. Uh you had BYD bu I think it
was Barclays or Jeff rather that came
out and slashing the price target here
for the ADRs and BU. A reversal of the
AI trade. Kingsoft cloud is one to watch
when we go into the open today and of
course BYD state council meeting. We'll
unpack this further for you later on. Uh
promising to address and let's see if
they're able to make sort of u uh
progress on this uh some of the
irrational competition that we're seeing
in the NEV space. BYD was down 1% uh
overnight. uh futures are doing this and
within the equity markets obviously
things like AI things like uh EVs we
talked about that as well uh dollar
China and of course in the commodity
space thalian iron ore as you can see
here at about a 5-month high will track
that very closely going into Ivon the
open today
>> yeah I just did a a check on my terminal
you're right we're we're very close
>> boom there flirting with those record
highs that was set back in January for
TSMC so certainly one to watch uh
throughout today we're going to have a
preview from Bell coming up from there
as well Let's get to our top story.
President Trump has denied that he is
planning to fire Fed Chair Jay Powell
after raising the idea in a closed-d
dooror meeting with congressional
Republicans that leaked to the media.
>> He's a terrible He's a terrible Fed
chair. I was surprised he was appointed.
I was surprised, frankly, that uh Biden
put him in and extended him, but uh they
did. So, no, we're not planning on doing
anything. We're very concerned.
It's the right of the elected uh
president to appoint the next successor
and go through uh Congress. And I think
in that dialogue around that, there'll
be a lot of dialogue about, okay, how do
you set interest rates? What do you
think about interest rates? Because the
Fed is an independent agency. I think no
matter who gets in, they're going to
look at it and have to look at the facts
and make a decision because if you drop
rates too far, inflation may kick up and
then you're going to have to raise them
back quickly.
>> Right? We touched on this earlier on the
twos and 30s curve right now. As you can
see, of course, a slightly more dovish
Fed if in the event that is of course
the case. Uh and of course a longer ed
premium bill being built in in the
30-year yield. Uh comments coming
through out of Anna Wong out of
Bloomberg economics here. We think Trump
is testing the markets to see whether he
can fire power and just to complete that
maybe that idea whether he can fire
power without causing disruptions or
massive disruptions in the markets. It
it seems like, you know, given the fact
that the reaction was pretty muted after
what we heard from that White House
official, what does that mean? Does it
embolden Trump to continue on this sort
of campaign? It's not just him talking
about it now. You do have more people in
his circle, all the president's men,
>> it almost seems coordinating
>> this sort of effort. Um, what to do with
next? Let's bring our news desk editor
Jill Dies, who's been tracking this
whole Trump and Powell saga. How
seriously should we be looking at this
right now?
>> I mean, look, Ivonne, I think that, you
know, what our our chief economist is
talking about, what you guys are talking
about here, this idea that this could
potentially be a trial balloon, I I
think that's that's very probable. I
mean, you know, may not be very far off
the mark. when you look at what he
ultimately said even in this uh you know
sort of open briefing with the press
here. I mean I'm not sure how much of a
denial it is when Trump then later said
and I quote I don't rule out anything
but I think it's highly unlikely unless
he has to leave for fraud. uh that seems
to be kind of in uh line with what we've
been hearing from some Republicans
recently, which is um that if you know
there's a precedent for for uh firing
Powell or if there's some kind of um you
know a thing that you would fire Powell
for, they seem to be zeroing in on some
renovations being done to the Federal
Reserve headquarters um accusing them of
being too lavish. Um Powell has denied
this. He says he's actually um you know,
invited an open inquiry there. Um but it
does I think sort of raise that spectre
that um you know clearly uh Powell
continuing to be the Fed chair um is
something that has vexed Trump for
months and months and months if not
years. I mean he's raised the spectre of
um you know not just the the idea of
firing Powell but that you know Powell
should leave um multiple times. We've
heard him express his dissatisfaction
with him before. Um you know we know
that Trump likely has a whole host of
potential candidates to come and replace
him. Um, you know, one name that
continues to come up is Kevin Hasset.
Uh, he's the the head of the National
Economic Council. You know, somebody
that has tracked, I think, more in line,
uh, with with Trump as being a critic of
the Fed not working, uh, fast enough to
cut rates. But again, I mean, the the
big question here is that it's really
only what, 9 10 months until Trump has
the option to ultimately install um, you
know, a new Fed chair, nominate a new
Fed chair again. So, um, I think the
fact that you're getting all of this
now, I mean, the possibility that Trump,
uh, could be looking to remove Powell in
some way, even if it's just less than a
year out from when he would ultimately
have a chance to put a new Fed chair on,
just shows how much this really truly
bothers Donald Trump. And again, I think
Yvon, to your point about that fairly
muted market reaction, yeah, I mean, if
if you know, you just don't really have
that much volatility. I mean, we saw,
you know, short-term yields fall a
little bit, dollar fall a little bit,
stocks fall a little bit, but there's no
dramatic repricing in any way, right?
So, I mean, maybe that does kind of
enable him there. I think, you know,
it'll take some time to figure it out,
but we'll see.
>> And we just showed the move index. And
yeah, I think on that note, to to to
Jill's point, the bond market largely
maybe doesn't care about this. Ask about
tariffs, too. There's also the latest
lines there on 10 to 15% on about 150
countries. What do we know about that?
>> Yeah, David, I think that um you know,
it's kind of speaks to what we've seen
really over the past several weeks in
terms of how Trump is thinking about
tariffs globally. I mean, I know that
we've had this conversation on this
program before, but um the idea that
maybe Trump is looking at something of a
little bit of a higher baseline level uh
for global tariffs. Um this was uh kind
of the intimation when we saw, you know,
some of the lines out of Indonesia uh
yesterday, him setting this, you know,
19% after, you know, some lower
negotiations. Vietnam, I think around
20%. um you know that was kind of
indicating that maybe Trump is thinking
that um there's like a higher global
baseline um higher than maybe the 10%
that investors um you know markets were
really thinking just a few months ago.
Um if it is 10 to 15% I think that still
kind of falls somewhere in the
neighborhood of um you know the way that
we're we're kind of facing this new
reality of there's going to be that base
level of global tariffs. But I think we
do have to see. I think one thing that
has, you know, been clear throughout the
entirety of, you know, not just Trump's
second term in office so far, but also
his first term in office is that, you
know, he does kind of, you know, change
his his opinions a bit. Um, you know,
but yeah, we'll we'll see. There's an
August 1 deadline ahead of us on
tariffs. Um, see what uh Trump wants to
decide.
>> Okay. Yeah. Well, let's let's let's talk
tomorrow then and see how things have
changed. Jill D is there. Thank you so
much. Our news deskes editor. Right. Uh,
just an update here. 7 and I will be
resuming trade in about uh just about 8
7 8 minutes from now over in Tokyo. So
we'll see of course after now we
understand from both sides that this
it's now well severed in you is the
opposite of course of that. Okay, let's
bring it back to the top stories. Market
strategy.
Uh, do we remain fully invested? Do we
wait for more clarity on many of the
uncertainties out there? Felix Brill is
with us here. Group CIO of VP Bank
joining us here of course on sets AUM of
more than $60 billion. Nice to see you,
sir.
>> Good to happy to be here. Thank you.
>> So, do I do I lose sleep? Should I lose
sleep over this whole Powell being
fired? He he might be gone anyway in 9
months time.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's a bit strange idea, put
it neutally. Um, it's a bit of a trauma,
I would say, isn't it? Um, but at the
same time, it's a very serious issue,
isn't it? Uh, because it's about the
independence of the Fed. So,
>> let's take the market reaction as well,
no one really believes he he's going to
go through with it, but if he goes
through with it, that might not be as a
good scenario, I would say. H
>> how do you think that's being expressed?
Seems like the dollar continues to be
sort of the victim.
>> Yeah.
>> In a lot of the headlines that we get,
whether it's tariffs, whether it's about
Fed independence.
>> Yeah. The dollar is under pressure. Has
been for for many months now. And many
of the factors putting the dollar under
pressure are still in place and might be
even getting bigger. For most inflation
dynamics, it's not good for the dollar.
Fiscal situation is not good. And if you
risk the independence of the Fed, it's
also not good news for the dollar. So
mid to long term, the dollar faces a lot
of headwinds. But at the same time, we
see right now a lot of negative
sentiment on the dollar. And whenever
that is the case, like a small rebound
is possible for whatever reason because
sentiment is just too negative in the
short term.
>> And we advise our clients then take that
opportunity if there's a rebound maybe
then to think about getting a bit less
dollar exposure in your portfolio.
>> The you guys are overweight embod
well what the thesis is. Is it are you
know are still same classic reasons and
do you see any catalyst then for a
reversal in to your point in the US
dollar then that might be a risk to that
trade?
>> Actually the weakening of the dollar is
a supporting factor quite a bit because
we know that the weaker dollar usually
goes along with good performance in
emerging markets both on the equity side
and on the bond side.
>> But if you look at the bond side we see
that structurally the things have really
improved over the years. look at current
account balances, fiscal situation,
inflation, central bank policy, we have
much improvement from a risk point of
view and so we think and you get at the
moment a nice yield pickup. Um so we
think it's worthwhile to take a bit of a
risk in order to get that yield pickup
because it's treasuries they don't uh
have um they also face risks. So we
think that is a it's a nice add-on to
the portfolio.
>> Yeah, I had a guest talk about this uh
she called it the emification of DM
>> is real, right? you're no longer seeing
these developed market bonds as a safety
haven anymore, but EM is becoming much
more of a resilient asset class overall.
Do you subscribe to that sort of view?
>> Yeah, definitely. So, that overweight we
just implemented um comes on top of a
strategic positioning in emerging
markets because we think in the long
term of course a lot of growth is
happening in emerging markets. You have
to be exposed in a global portfolio to
emerging markets. That's for sure from a
strategic point of view. But on top of
it also in the short term if you look I
mean yeah as you mentioned um uh US
treasuries also some European bonds they
are not risk-f free right
>> what about in equity markets
>> equity markets well honestly um we do
not really know what's going to happen
with the tariffs what the final
settlement will be the regime right so
on a daily basis we get a lot of news
maybe this market is now in focus
tomorrow the next market
>> does it matter longer term
>> in the longer yeah if we get you know
high tariffs permanently that will
matter because that puts companies under
pressure in the end there's no free
lunch someone has to pay the bill will
be US consumers and if uh oh not only US
consumers if there's a like escalation
everyone has to pay a bill for it and
that is difficult for the economic
environment that especially the
transition to towards that regime um but
in the short term markets seem to be
still kind of a bit relaxed maybe
complacent maybe it's fatigue I don't
know but in this environment we say well
fully invested yes you you can't just
you know like go away completely from
markets you should be invested uh you
see all the positive news right and
underlying the economy is doing well but
we don't pick and choose a single market
right now so we diversify across equity
markets fully invested but don't pick
and choose a single market
>> um how should I be looking at China in
particular right it seems like the data
for now is holding up but everyone's
talking about maybe there is going to be
some payback once these tariffs if in
fact they do kick in and the front loing
sort sort of fades overall but this
equity market has been doing relatively
speaking pretty well.
>> Yeah, definitely. And also now GDP data
for the second quarter beat market
expectations which was a good sign,
right? uh and we see so far um China is
managing quite quite well to go through
that wall of worries, the uncertainty
and and the tariff situation looking for
alternatives that takes time but you
have to buy that time and so far it
seems to work
>> but at the same time we know there are
headwinds you know like private
consumption is soft um so that is a risk
the housing market is still
rather soft not really recovering yet so
that is a challenge but at the same time
we know the the government has tools to
support growth is if necessary. So that
is something to look forward. So
therefore we actually quite positive on
China for the time being.
>> I guess just a final note on just
broadly tariffs and inflation
>> and we've yet to see whether or not it's
showing showing up in large in a large
way in inflation numbers and of course
the corporate earnings yet to be seen.
But do you should we assume that
terrorists will start to show up in its
various forms and whether that's
economic data or earnings coming through
in the next few weeks?
>> Yeah, I would be surprised if it doesn't
show up and actually we see early signs
of pass through. It's not not strong
signs yet, but if you look at the June
data, if you look at
>> um appliances, furniture, toys, apparel,
you see early signs for that. And it's
still early days because I think because
there's still a lot of uncertainty
on the final uh tariff regime, companies
are probably reluctant to test for
testing their pricing power, right? So
they hold on as long as possible to pass
through because they might still have
inventories and so on so forth. But that
becomes more and more difficult over
time and if more tariffs kick in let's
say on August 1st we will definitely see
a path through. There is no free lunch.
>> All right Felix thank you Felix Brill
there group CIO of VP Bank joining us
here right now and we are just maybe
about a few seconds away from what we're
hearing from the Tokyo Stock Exchange 7
and I shared my screen are going to be
resuming trade here. This is of course
on the back of Kushtard uh really
abandoning that $46 billion bid to
acquire the company. You know, there's a
lot of questions of what comes next,
right? The fact that, you know, from
Kushtard's side, it seems like they said
they they didn't feel like the, you
know, 7i was very sincere in these
negotiations or willing to come to the
table in terms of some sort of takeover.
And so, you know, they have to prove
themselves. They need to deliver now
according to Bloomberg intelligence on
whether, you know, is there really going
to be, you know, a case to be made to
stand by itself
or actually be taken over by someone
else. So I think there's still a lot of
questions on what this means for seven
and I moving forward.
>> Yeah. Because there was an overlap
between there was a a decent business
case to be made and I think the the
sticking point largely was the price at
which they would sort of consummate that
deal. But it it does seem right now
based on what both sides are saying um
at least seven and I saying that Kushart
has one-sidedly terminated thoughts.
does seem of course that that was a
unilateral decision on on one end. Now
I'm just looking at pricing. So we
haven't yet actually just to be clear
haven't yet actually gotten a a match on
trading but it does seem we are set for
a decline here and unex you know
unsurprisingly that's going to be the
case given of course the that this is
now no longer on the table and suffice
to say at least for now. All right,
we'll let you know how things go once
they do if we see any movement on the
stock. We're kind of announcing the
opens of trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and Hong Kong. This is the China show.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. Uh you're watching
the China show. the fixing of the day.
Now the adjustment coming out of the
central bank is well quite material
material in the sense that the actual
level of the midpoint is well
strengthening the fixing by the most
since uh since May that now that should
not come as a big surprise given the
weakness in the dollar overnight and you
know what blame the uncertainty around
Fed uh and power and his job security
there but again suffice to say there's
also the trade negotiations taking place
uh with Donald Trump I think saying it's
10 to 15% for about 150 countries That's
coming soon.
>> Yep. And so we're still waiting for to
see which ones those are. But certainly
in the meantime, the dollar still seems
to be a little bit on the back foot here
after what we saw with this whole saga
with J. Pal and Trump, which president,
you know, did deny. Yeah. But not fully,
>> not completely.
>> But it was a about an hour of, you know,
certainly a little bit of distress in
the markets, but it was quite muted.
>> I mean, if there's nothing to talk
about, then let's not talk about it,
right? But anyway. Okay. Um,
>> anyways, uh, let's get to something else
that we need to talk about. White House
sources are saying that President Trump
has softened his tone with China, trying
to secure a summit with Xi Jinping and a
trade deal with Beijing. Let's bring in
our chief North Asia correspondent,
Stephen Engel, on what we know so far.
>> Well, we know that uh, he has allowed
that H20 chip from Nvidia to go into
China. That could potentially be
perceived as a softening of the tone. We
can talk about that in a little bit. Uh
we also know that essentially they they
came to another truce in London that
could be considered uh to be a softening
of the tone. We do know that he wants a
summit with Xiinping. China is not
giving an inch right now as far as
saying uh that is something that is
imminent. So again, it it looks like
from sources, they're telling us that in
in meetings within his inner circle,
often times Trump is the least hawkish
of the bunch towards China. He wants a
trade deal and he wants a summit. And
guess what happens in two weeks from
tomorrow? That's that deadline of August
1st, right? August 12th is the deadline
of for China. So the clock is ticking
really quickly. And yes, the indications
are that they're working at a possible
extension of that truce for another 90
days. But again, I think what's
happening with Donald Trump right now,
he wants some quick wins. He wants to
cut some purchase deals like he did in
his first term when he had that uh trade
deal uh that obviously unwound because
of the spy balloon and because of COVID
and other issues. But again, he wants to
get back on that track. Do a trade deal,
get some purchase deals, get China to
commit to buying X number of soybeans or
whatever. I'm, you know, just, you know,
extrapolating here. But again, he has
taken a softer tone. Whether that's
deliberate or not, we don't know. But
the sources are saying the ultimate aim
is to get that summit. the now the
reversal on the invidia chip story h how
does that inform us of how soft Donald
Trump has become on China or is that
simply because China was asking for that
and in order to get that summit they
needed to give that up well I think it
is part of the negotiations what I find
the most interesting it wasn't the white
house that announced it
>> because it would not necessarily be
perceived as a win against China right
so if you have the hawks are saying be
tougher on China and you've had Scott
Besson you've had Lutnik you've had
these people use the H20 chip as an
example of how the White House is being
tough on China on those export controls.
And in the past, these uh various
individuals in the administration have
indicated that there's no relenting on
that. There's no negotiation on the
high-end chips. Even though yes, the H20
was specifically designed for China as a
watered down AI accelerator, but still
it was added in April to the export
control list to the point where Nvidia
was building another chip for China that
was likely to roll out in September
based on the Blackwell architecture also
watered down. But again, the fact that
the White House didn't announce this
because there would have been potential
blowback and it would have contrasted
with the rhetoric that he had on the on
the campaign trail and how others in his
administration so far in the first six
months of his term have been tough on
China.
>> Steve, thank you. Our chief Asia
correspondent Stephen Engel there and
and really coming up we have a great
guest to talk about this too.
>> Yeah, Eurasia Group unpacks that story
for us but the implications are broader
implications of course beyond the
headlines. Xiaomlu joins us in a couple
of minutes going into the open today.
Stand by for that and looking at a touch
of weakness coming through in the equity
markets pricing. 5 minutes away the
opening bell. This is the China show.
[Music]
>> Right, welcome back. Before we take a
look at and go into in proper form the
open in greater China today. An update
on seven and I it just resumed trading a
few minutes back and we had been
flirting in and around the 2,000 yen
level. At one point we were below it.
Let's call it a 9% drop after of course
this deal or this potential deal falls
through with Kushard. One-sided decision
according to 79 to pull away.
>> And what does this mean? Right? You know
can they do this alone and still unlock
shareholder value? They've done plenty
of things uh in the midst of all this as
well. Getting a new CEO and the like.
And so certainly what's next for the
company is a big thing, but the stock as
we've been talking about, right, rallies
25% about 11 months ago. We first
started hearing news of this. So
potentially we could still see a bit of
fallout here today. Here's your open in
China and greater China looking like
this today. Onshore, it's pretty quiet
overall. There's not a whole lot to tell
you about. Um but we're focusing of
course maybe there's a little bit more
warmer sort of vibes going on in this US
China relationship as we just talked to
you about as well. Uh that fix uh was
also quite telling from the PBOC the
strongest fix we've seen since May just
really reflecting that dollar weakness
there. But that's really more about a
Powell and Trump sort of drama that's
unfolding that we saw overnight there
that seems to be stabilized a bit here
but still a lot of lingering questions
on what you know these these dollar sort
of doldrums mean for this part of the
world. Uh we're flat when it comes to
stocks. uh onshore. Uh we're watching
very closely the tech space though. Can
we flip the boards and see how Shan Hong
Kong is doing? So far um you know Hangen
is flat but we are seeing HStech on
offer here today. BU seems to be one of
the big culprits here. You know we we
saw two solid sessions. Of course the
tech shares have been doing quite well
in the face of this whole Nvidia story.
Jeden Hang and China and really the
whole H20 chips resuming uh in the
mainland. But you know Morgan Stanley
coming out with a pretty interesting
note on BYU talking about the the second
quarter core ads very likely to see
downside surprise as well. But still
they are raising that target to the
price to $100 from 95 for BYU. Uh we're
watching some of the EV sector here
today. There's a whole kind of talk
about this whole irrational competition
in the EV sector as well. So maybe more
in terms of the regulatory side of
things. We'll be focusing that with
Midman just a bit here. But yeah, most
of these EV stocks are actually higher
this morning. Uh when it comes to New
World, that was the latest there. When
it comes to what they might be doing,
our sources saying they might be looking
into selling some of the uh this 11
skies airport mall, uh that as a way to
maybe free up some liquidity there.
Shimal property also uh there's some
news on the restructuring side of things
uh there as well that is going to be
taking effect uh in just a few days 4
days or so. So that's the latest there.
Shimal property is up about 2 and a
half%.
>> Yeah and we have a lot of guests coming
through really to talk us through these
big themes. So HSBC joins us to talk
about Chinese property. In a few minutes
we'll be talking with Shia Monglu of
Eurasia uh in terms of the implications
of the tech and geopolitics. Before we
get to that though and certainly we'll
we'll talk about Jensen Huang in a
moment as Ivon is pointing out right key
levels to watch today and we have been
testing and we have faltered on the
Hangen tech index at 5500 highore in
about two hours from now has seen uh a
mini uptrend of late so we're trading at
about highest since midmay uh on high
board there and of course as pertain to
tech we talked about this already at the
open iron ore separately is trading at
about a fivemon high and of course
Jensen Hang is still uh in Beijing. In
fact, in fact, speaking of the Nvidia
chief there now, he says that he hopes
uh to get the first batch of renewed US
licenses soon to export H20 AI chips to
China speaking in Beijing, he told us
that his company along with the supply
chains will adapt to any changes in the
trading landscape. Have a look.
The world is reconfiguring itself and uh
we are a company and we just have to we
have to adapt to whatever the world's uh
uh trade and tax and tariff conditions
are. Uh there were there were trade
taxes and tariffs before I came into
Nvidia. There will be trade tariffs and
taxes after I leave Nvidia. And so so
this is just a this is something we all
have to adapt to.
For more, let's bring in Shia Monglu,
director of geotechnology at Eurasia
Group. Shiaong, it's always great to
have you on the program. I want to get
your take on this. I mean, overall, was
it a surprise, you think, that Nvidia
was able to get the green light and to
resume the delivery of some of these
chips to China and and overall, what do
you think this means for their China
business? Now,
>> I think this is an unexpected thought of
US China tech relationship. This is
Jensen Hong's moment. What's more
thrilling than running a $4 trillion
company being a power broker between US
and China? Looks like he's doing it.
>> What does this then mean? Well, a couple
of things, right? So, I want to ask you
what you think about how what what the
implications are for the domestic chip
makers in China and whether or not we
should view this as negative uh for that
specific group. Shia,
>> right? I think uh depends on where you
sit in the Chinese supply chain, you'll
feel differently about this news. It's
very promising
update for Deepseek because previously
the Chinese model face deployment
challenges because Chinese cloud service
providers ran out of H20 which deepseek
heavily relies on to scale its
operation. uh with much wider access to
Nvidia's AI chips, this pain will ease
and uh adoption of deepseek will
accelerate. But Huawei may not be as
excited because they are have been
attempting to compete with Nvidia but
struggle with a lag in manufacturing
capacity as well as software ecosystem.
Shaman, what what does it tell you about
the Trump administration's overall
stance in in export curbs now? I mean,
before it was what, the small fence high
high bar or I forgot what it was called,
but
yeah. How would you classify how they're
dealing with this particular sector now?
Because, you know, it seems like at
first Nvidia chips to China was almost
like a a red line.
>> That is being put to question now. And
it seems like it's all transactional.
Yeah, there seems to be this change of
mind of Trump administration which is
unprecedented which is a a major shift
away from what Washington has been doing
an entrenched effort for the past seven
eight years all of a sudden they decided
that actually coupling with China in
certain part of the supply chain is a
good thing a good for consumers a good
for US company and it's good for the US
um I the previous guest on the show talk
about what are the drivers of these
changes but it seems to be a very sudden
shift in the temperature um of US China
conversation in Washington DC
>> and just to follow up on Ivon's question
the temptation is to then conclude that
the US has given up on trying to stunt
or stop China's semiconductor progress
do you think that's the right conclusion
to make and if not or if not if not in
what other form do you think the
tightening then
shows up in the future? Shiao
>> I wouldn't go that far as they are going
to relax all the controls on US AI chips
exports to China. I think Lutnik was
talking to reporters yesterday. He was
saying that we are giving China only
four generations behind us and that will
get them uh addicted to the system
enough they're going to heavily rely and
that's the thinking. I think this is
just an initial thought of the
relationship. I think people like Jensen
Huang will keep pushing this
conversation and moving the needle as
far as he can. But I think there's a
good chance the China hawks in the US
the securityentric
centric policy decision makers will push
back on this industry win and um try to
reverse at least notch back um the the
recent change in Washington.
>> There's so much talk about you know
China's self-sufficiency and whether
they can continue on despite these trade
tensions. I mean when you look at you
overall the supply chain are are there
parts where you still see challenges in
China really advancing in its
competition with the US.
>> Uh definitely I think lithography
machine is a it's a great example of
that. I think it still takes them a long
time to find alternative to that and
even for Nvidia chips maybe Huawei have
some alternative that's um advantageous
in terms of computing power but in terms
of the software ecosystem Nvidia build
on called CUDA I think that's still the
easiest most convenient way um to uh for
small startups and uh application
developers to plug into the system I
think adds a mode that um make the
Nvidia chips very very valuable. Still
>> uh Sham, final question for you. I guess
another followup there is do you now
think I think the point on lithography
right and we heard from ASML yesterday
in their earnings. Do you think that the
Dutch and the Japanese might follow suit
here because of this sort of slight
opening that the White House has now
created?
>> I think there got to be interest from
countries like that. third country that
hold virtual IP in the chip supply chain
trying to take this advantage and
explore opportunity to advance their own
course. I think that's definitely um a
direction they're going to pursue.
>> Xiaomu, thank you so much. Uh director
there of geotechnology at Eurasia Group
on just important really context there
on what this means and but to what
extent it actually then means a
loosening and maybe just don't get too
ahead of yourselves there. Right. Uh the
other big story we're tracking shares of
7 and I have been up and running now for
about 10 minutes or so here over in
Tokyo. So we're down about 8 9%. We're
trading at about the 2,000 yen level. Um
before this Kushart offer came through,
we were trading just below 1,800. So
there is still a little bit of premium,
but I guess you also have to sort of
discount that the market itself has also
gone up since that point in time. Now
the Canadian firm is accusing the
Japanese firm of a deliberate delay
during the almost year-long pursuit, a
claim that then the Japanese firm then
says it disagrees with. Uh, let's bring
in our Montreal bureau chief, Matthew
Dion, who joins us right now to talk us
through this. And
who So, who's at fault here? They're
both pointing fingers at each other.
Matthew.
>> Uh, yeah. I mean, it's it's really a
biller letter uh that Kush sent to the
board to seven and I's board uh today.
Um, so I mean since the beginning since
this story got leaked in August, so
let's go back almost a year ago. um he
always felt that seven and I didn't want
to engage with Kushta. So Kush came in
with a first bid at $ 38 billion and
then a second one uh nearing $50 billion
uh if you take the conversion back then
and uh there was another one afterwards
where they just uh tricked it with with
currency that and then that was nearing
50 billion. But so that represented a
almost 50% premium on the undisturbed
stock price back then and despite that
you could always feel that sai refused
to engage but Kusha was being polite all
along at one point where they were just
saying in Tokyo during a press
conference that it was hard uh to engage
with seven and I but today in that
letter we really see the frustration
they've had all along about the lack of
engagement from seven and I because this
company just didn't want to sell and we
could feel it from the beginning and now
we're seeing it today despite the
non-disclosure agreement they had signed
in May. I mean it just didn't happen.
They were not sharing information and
that's what that is that is what Kushtar
is complaining about in this letter
>> Matthew that is it done then for Kushtar
I mean you know Seanide said it was one
they had one-sidedly terminated these
talks that you know maybe is there still
room for negotiation moving forward
>> okay so let's go back 20 years ago
Kushtar came in approached seven and I
to buy the company they've done done
that several times. They made something
very special last summer with a letter
and an offer price. Um it's a company
known to be patient. I mean for the
founder Alen Bush who started with one
convenience store in Quebec, Montreal.
Um he's always thought of being the
biggest larger largest convenience store
in the world. So it will always be a
goal. But I talked to a person familiar
with the matter tonight. um because we
are tonight here uh in Canada. Uh and he
said this is done for now. This is
really done for now. Uh it's not a
tactic. It's done. Maybe they could come
back in a couple of years. Maybe that
that's always a possibility. But as long
as 7 and I doesn't want to engage, as
long as perholders of seven and I don't
come out to pressure seven and I uh to
to to sell the company, I mean Kustar is
stuck and cannot move forward.
>> Matthew, it's great to have you. Thank
you for staying up late for us, Matthew
Dion there, our Montreal bureau chief
with the latest there. Um we we got to
talk about these Aussie job numbers
because they've always been quite
volatile and this is what we're hearing
here today. Yes.
rising 2,000 jobs.
>> So rises, so they added 2,000 jobs
month. Yeah.
>> The estimate was, get this, 20,000.
Dave, um jobless rate was a little bit
higher though, 4.3% for June. The
estimate was for 4.1%. Part-time
employment though, we did see that rise
from 40,000 jobs. But yeah, that that
probably is right. We are seeing the
Aussie dollar a little bit heavy here
this morning.
>> Yeah, the the full-time employment gauge
was what really pulled this one down.
Yeah.
>> Uh so negative 38,000 jobs um job
destruction in June there for for
Australia. Right. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. 60 minutes into the cash
market session. EVs in focus and we're
looking mostly at gains. NEO, of course,
to the downside. Big drop in NEO shares
overnight in the US. This might be down
to
um some strong language coming through
here out of uh officials. They're now
looking or they've pledged to reign in
what they now describe as irrational
competition. in the sector. He signed
that they're perhaps getting more
concerned about the price war
threatening economic growth. Minor China
correspondent is here with us to talk us
through uh where we heard it from, who
said it and in what context.
>> Yeah, so we got this from a CCTV news
report. That's the state TV and Premier
Lee had chaired a state council meeting
and this came from that meeting where
the government is pledging to rein in
this unhealthy competition by stepping
up investigation and monitoring of
prices. They're also asking these car
makers to enhance their competitiveness
by uh by doing more product innovation,
increasing the quality of their products
rather than cutting prices. But of
course, realistically, how is this going
to be implemented? Whether it's going to
be penalties on certain companies that
sell cars below cost or that makes very
unreasonable unreasonable price
discounts. It's still not very clear how
it's going to be enforced. We do know
that last month the government had
summoned the leaders of some of these
car makers asking them to conduct
self-regulation on prices. So I guess if
the self-regulation doesn't work the
government is going to step up
intervention. Um and of course it shows
that the government is really serious
about tackling this problem of uh
deflationary prices at the factory gate
not just in the EV sector but overall
we've been seeing prices declining for
over 30 months now. And there's a big
drag on economic economic growth and
also on corporate investments as well.
There's been some news on Tesla in in
China. They're maybe possibly readying a
new version.
>> Yes, they have announced that it's going
to be a new sort of six-seater um SUV
type of car. It's 15 cm longer than the
Tesla uh Model Y. And this is something
investors like
>> 15 cm longer. Yeah.
>> Yes. Six-seater. So, another
>> in
how is that how is that bigger? That's
like my phone.
>> Slightly slightly bigger. Okay. Okay.
Anyway, sorry.
>> Maybe the seats are narrower. Um but
yes, investors like it because you look
at the share prices overnight and
increase, right? We're also checking the
the Tesla supplier stock also um
increasing here in Asia as well. Um but
you look at Tesla's overall lineup so
far, it's been seen as quite stale if
you compare it to some of its Chinese
competitors. They've been coming out
with new products, new models at a much
faster pace with very advanced sort of
features in their cars. And you look at
Xiaomi for example, it's taking on Tesla
directly with very similar models, very
similar price points, mainly just under
the Tesla price point. Uh Xiaomi already
introduced its SUV model last month to
very strong reception, 280 over a,000
pre-orders in the first few months. So
the real test is when Tesla launches
this sometime in the autumn, what is the
reception going to be like? Because they
just managed to snap this 8 month uh
decline in shipments out of out of the
Shanghai factory. So in June they saw a
very modest increase 0.8% higher. We
might be seeing sort of the bottoming
out of that trend. Maybe this new car
can help them lift that sales a little
bit more.
>> And why do a six-seater? I'm sorry.
>> Yeah, six-seater is a super.
So it brings to mind I this is a random
thought, right? So when you order when I
order an Uber XL and then a Tesla shows
up, I I'm somewhat disappointed because
I'm expecting a larger van to come up.
>> Ah,
>> I guess to the point you're making for
one for you.
>> I I need to stretch my legs, right? You
know,
>> I have a family of five now, so I'm like
a six-seater doesn't count it for me.
Even seven seater isn't counted for me
these days.
>> I just like the one where the cars the
car doors open sideways
>> like Dumbo's ears.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Anyway,
>> Milo, thank you. Our China correspondent
with the latest on all things EVs. In
other stories that we're tracking out of
China today, the Financial Times says
the US communications regulator plans to
ban Chinese technology in submarine
cables connected to the US. The FCC
chair Brennan Carr is quoted saying that
if the rule is approved, Chinese firms
won't be allowed to build, operate, or
lease capacity on future cables. The
rule would apply only to new license
applications, not existing
infrastructure. Chinese developer Shumau
says expects to complete the
restructuring of 11.5 billion in
offshore debt by next Monday. That adds
to around $1.3 billion in yand
denominated loans already extended in
2025. Schuma has said it's sold 8,300
homes so far this year, meeting its own
target. And there's more on China's
property problems in the next hour. will
be speaking with HSBC to get their take
on which their preferred stocks in the
sector are as we head into the earning
season. Michelle Quac joins us pretty
soon. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, we are checking movers here
this morning. Huawei suppliers in focus
here after what we heard from some data
that Huawei actually topping smartphone
the smartphone market in China for the
first time in years. So the suppliers
are doing quite well here today. Uh and
we're watching very closely what this
means right the whole Nvidia story does
that actually impact Huawei's in terms
of AI chips or chips and the like there
that certainly is uh that other bigger
question that we're looking at here
today. But the suppliers are doing well
in the face of this highlight and
milestone for the company. Tesla
suppliers in focus as we just talked
about this new plan of a model Y L 15
centimeters long
>> longer than the other one
Tesla suppliers um CL is the one you
have to watch though we'll check that
one in just a little bit time Macau
casinos as well right so we knew this
was going to happen right second quarter
of VIP gaming revenue actually rise rose
to the highest since the fourth quarter
of 2019
so uh certainly we are seeing quite
robust numbers first coming through in
terms of gain revenue. The VIP sector in
particular seems to be the highlight
here, but mixed picture across some of
these Macau casino operators. Win Macau,
for example, is doing one thing and up
about 1% as well. Um, we're watching the
dashboard here. You know, it seems like
it's a pretty decent day for equities
here. Hangen is doing a little bit
better and so is MCI China. We're up
about half of 1%.
>> Dave, anything you want to add?
>> The I'm tracking. So, it's largely quiet
but decent as you can see. Everyone is
running out in the equity market. Uh the
one thing that I would just single in on
as it pertains to this visual on your
screens is bottom bright iron ore prices
have silently creeped up to just under
800 remmbb there. Uh and at that level
we're actually back to the highest level
here since Feb. So that just I guess
just a note there. 10-year yield down to
166. We're looking at repo rates
following the injection this week coming
out of the PBOC. So repo rates have
resumed their downtrends and on the
opposite of that here in Hong Kong.
Maybe later on we'll get an update of
this. Highore is actually on the way
back up to about two month highs on
that. Plenty more ahead. The second hour
of the China show is just ahead.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China show. So
here's a look at the HSI half hour into
the session and yeah, we're seeing
decent gains here today. We're up about
4/10 of 1% but yes, it is a bit of thin
trading here. We also have had a pretty
spectacular sort of run already, right?
Yesterday we did hit those the highest
levels we've seen in about 3 years for
the hang. So maybe we're trimming some
of the gains at least here right now.
>> Yeah. And I mean we are hitting and I
think we're going into earning season,
right? And I think some of the
commentary that's scrump is has been
largely market moving. So, we've talked
about Macau, of course, and the movers
there. Um, BYU is another good example
of that that's coming up on your screens
very shortly with Morgan Stanley coming
out with a note ahead of earnings coming
through, I think, in a still a couple of
weeks time. Um, on expecting some
weakness to come through there. So, Bid
was down overnight. Jeff came out and
slashed their price target for the ADR
and then Morgan Stanley came through
earlier on with a warning on uh this
specific stock here down about 3%.
Xiaomi is down about one and nothing
much else as far as the others are
concerned. Although of course we have
been we have seen quite some uh
girrations in the share price of many of
the big platform companies like Baba on
the way up and on the way back down this
week. JD.com is part of that story.
Mtoan is actually last I checked one of
the ones to the upside but that could be
changing as I speak. Right. Speaking of
changing as we speak, is really the
conversations around
is Fed Powell is is J. Powell's job at
risk? Is he going to serve out his term?
Um is Donald Trump pulling back and to
what extent he's pulling back? Some of
the comments coming through there, but
it doesn't seem like he's putting the
story to bed completely here.
>> Not completely ruling it out and still
continue to attack Powell in some ways.
Um but it was interesting, right? You
talked about that mini reaction that we
saw. Maybe it took about less than an
hour once Trump clarified, but you did
see that massive steepening of the
curve. Dollar retreated,
>> uh, stocks retreated just a little bit,
but overall it was a pretty muted sort
of response as well. So, you know, Anna
from Liber Economics had a great take on
this and she says, "Look, is this just
them leaking this information in a way
to really test the markets to see what,
you know, traders are going to do in the
event of a Powell firing?
Who knows? May be
>> um certainly that's one question that
we're going to be asking. But here,
President Trump is denying that he's
trying to fire Fed Chair J. Powell after
raising that idea at a closed door
meeting that did leak to media. Here's a
more from the president.
>> And the fake news is saying, "Oh, if you
fired him, it would be so bad. It would
be so bad. I don't know why it would be
so bad."
>> So, we have a a stupid person, frankly,
at the Fed. I call him too late pal cuz
he's always too late. I know within
three or four people who all going to
pick. I mean, he goes out pretty soon,
unfortunately, because I think he's
terrible.
>> I'd love him to resign if he wanted to.
He's done lousy job.
>> Jerome Pal's been very bad for our
country. We should have the lowest
interest rate on earth and we don't. Uh
he just refuses to do it and yet he's
spending two and a half billion dollars
rebuilding the Fed.
>> He's a terrible He's a terrible Fed
chair. I was surprised he was appointed.
We're not planning on doing anything.
We're very concerned.
>> Mark Reinfield joins us from Singapore
to I guess to help us distinguish. Mark,
noise from signal here. Or is it all
noise or all signal? Mark,
>> I think this is one of those situations
where traders were really hoping they
wouldn't have to face this situation
where they need to price in the risk of
a Fed chairman going ahead of his time.
This is I think they would have liked to
to decide this is just noise and yet the
number of times it's being talked about
the different ways in which the subject
is being brought up. Traders are
beginning to say okay this is no longer
a black swan event. It is something we
need to give some credence to. So at the
moment, if you look at the way the
options market is pricing and the
futures market is probably saying that
traders are giving it about a 25%
possibility that Jerome Pal doesn't see
out his full term as Fed chairman. The
more that it gets talked about,
particularly by President Trump, the
more traders will have to take it
seriously and you will probably see
those odds start to increase. Now it may
well be that Bloomberg economics are
right that Trump will be watching the
market reaction and if the market
reaction is not too severe then maybe
that is the telling point that that
makes investors say yes this is a real
possibility and it could happen sooner
than later. So everybody is watching the
movements in the markets the the pricing
odds in the futures and and the betting
markets as well. You put all those
together and it's beginning to look like
a case of no smoke without a bit of
fire.
>> Either way though, I look at it right. I
if if it happens, obviously there's a
question of Fed independence.
If it doesn't happen, either way, it
seems like there is a repricing going on
that even if he leaves in in May of
2026, they're going to appoint someone
that is going to be doubbish and and
more doubbish than Powell. That's both
still seem to suggest a weaker dollar
moving forward. Mark.
Yes, I think the this um combined with
other policies which the the current
White House is doing are detrimental to
the US dollar that you can see that's
creeping in to the foreign exchange
trading world is that gradually
confidence in the dollar is being eroded
not just because of the Federal Reserve
but because of their their policies on
tariffs and also on the on the big bill
they recently passed the tax and savings
bill as well that looks as though it
will make the US deficit worse than it
it was already bad. It's going to make
it even worse which will again threaten
the sovereign rating of the United
States. So there's a number of things
building which are all undermining the
US dollar on a gradual basis. The Fed is
just one of those many factors. The the
way the market is pricing at the moment,
the assumption is that most of those
rate cuts will come in 2026.
What they're not aggressively pricing
for is the risk that they're brought
forward into 2025. And that's something
the markets will have to watch. If if
that changes again, that will weigh on
the US dollar as well. If we think those
rate cuts are going to come fast and
furious, let's say from September, maybe
even starting with a big one like a 50
basis points cut, that is not fully
priced into the market, especially not
into the value of the US dollar. So,
there's a lot of moving parts here and
it looks as though traders just won't be
able to relax. They're going to there's
no summer holiday for traders this year.
They're going to need to stay on their
alert all the time.
>> Mark, just to ask as well because I
can't seem to wrap my head completely
around the, you know, so something that
I think about is say the Supreme Court,
right? US Supreme Court, the US
president has control over who he
nominates there. That's personality
based. It's based on how they've they've
interpreted the law in recent, you know,
in in recent examples. But the Fed,
while the president does have a right to
choose, of course, who the Fed chair is,
the decisions of Fed officials are
largely based on the economy. That's
just a long way of trying to ask you,
Mark, is there really a case to cut
interest rates and bring them sooner if
indeed we do get someone else heading
the Fed tomorrow, for example.
>> They can they can always find some data
to support their case. Um, but it
depends how you slice and dice things
really. If they they pick certain
aspects of the inflation data, the Fed
has a preferred gauge of the PCE and if
they change the moving averages, they
can easily make the PCE look much tamer
than it is and they can justify a case
for lower interest rates on that basis.
The unemployment situation doesn't
really seem to suggest that they need to
cut interest rates yet, but that could
change quickly. already with the just in
the past few days uh Donald Trump has
been approved to allow more more cutting
of jobs in the in the US State
Department. So there's going to be more
government job losses coming up. So that
could deteriorate quite quickly that
would support rate cuts as well. Finding
data to support interest rate cuts is
not that difficult and economists and
Fed people probably can find a way
around that. It's more a question of how
it reads to investors globally. How does
the loss of independence filter into
markets in a way that undermines
treasuries and and the US dollar? So,
it's really more about the optics and
the timing rather than whether you can
always always find a reason to cut the
interest rates much easier than hiking
rates.
>> Mark, thank you. Our last strategist
Mark Cranfield there joining us out of
Singapore. We're also tracking one big
story here today and that is the shares
of 7 and I tumbling in Tokyo here this
morning after Kushtard announced it's
abandoning its $ 46 billion takeover
bid. Now the Canadian owner of Circle K
stores says the Japanese firm refused to
engage during the almost year-long
pursuit and ran a campaign of deliberate
delay. 7 and I which runs a rival
7-Eleven chain disputes that insisting
that it engaged in sincere talks and is
disappointed by Kushar's decision to
walk away. Now for more on what this
means for 79, let's bring in our Asia
consumer analyst out of Bloomberg
Intelligence, Leia Alhaj in Singapore
for us. Leia, this is a
I mean it's a story that's you know it's
it's it's it's binary. It was an
eitheror.
So with with what we know now, tell us
about what you think the impact likely
will be on 7 and I in its strategic
direction to really bring value to its
shareholders. Now
>> thank you David. Yeah, so the Kashar
withdrawal uh actually removes uh key
bit premium for the stock which was
around 19% uh yesterday as of close
yesterday. It probably dropped now to tw
12% after the share price drop. But that
actually the the withdrawal could help
uh the company strategically as it will
allow the management um to actually
pursue uh its transformation plan and
this includes a 2 trillion share buyback
program and which we think could lift
return on equity by 2030. Um and they
also plan on IPOing their North American
operations. They're also working on
revamping their operations in Japan as
well as the US. But definitely the
stakes are higher. So um execution risk
is in focus and without the bid um 7 and
I must prove it can actually extract
more value on its own rather than than
through the sale.
>> Yeah. As you as your reaction piece said
it's time for them to really deliver.
You you mentioned about the IPO of its
North American operations layout. How
how critical is that in unlocking value
and supporting the company's growth
ambitions? operations.
>> So the the the IPO of the North American
operations or rather uh if the company
would consider floating part of the um
the operations, it's um aimed at funding
the 2 trillion share buyback program
which I previously talked about. Also
the company has plans to expand to
100,000 stores by 2030 and they cannot
do that only organically. So that will
require uh some bolt-on and M&As and
probably uh big scale M&As which um the
IPO along with the sale of their
superstore operations would be able um
to fund those uh and they would need to
do that also without reaching their
leverage targets. So beyond um beyond
M&A and buyback also as I've mentioned
uh the company is reinvesting um in its
operations uh they're revamping their
stores especially uh in the US which
makes up uh 3/4 of the company's profit.
Uh but then again also for the IPO uh
timing and execution uh will be key in
terms of investor appetite, market
conditions um and they all would need to
uh to to be aligned for for that to
happen.
>> Leia, it was great to have you. Thanks
so much for bringing your insights
there. Leia Alhaj there our Bloomberg
Intelligence Asia consumer analyst uh
joining us from Singapore. Well, still
ahead on the China show, troubled Hong
Kong developer New World is looking to
offload its signature 11 Skies airport
mall in an effort to raise some money.
We have details on our scoop coming up.
[Music]
All right. Uh, you take a look when it
comes to what we're seeing in the
property space. I mean, for the past
three years or so, that gauge basically
hasn't really done too much in terms of
recovery, right? It really kind of
coincides with what we've been seeing.
The data this week as well with new home
prices. Those declines seem to be
getting more steeper uh than than
before. And there was a lot of
anticipation that we were going to see
something in this big meeting earlier
this part of the week. That also
disappointed in some ways as well. So
you know the issues that we've seen in
the property sector have dragged on the
economy and equity markets as well and
we talked about that whole meeting. Um
it seems like maybe where people were
anticipating too much possibly. Let's
get the take from HSBC now. Um on on the
back of that they they think that you
know it's it's really about the quality
of this urbanization now this new model
that they've been talking about that
came out this week. Let's bring in
Michelle Quakshi heads the Asia Real
Estate Research at HSBC. So seems like
the market got a bit ahead of themselves
about what we could have seen uh with
this meeting. What does this tell us
about where policy support is going to
come through? I think the market is
still building expectations that there
will be another meaningful round of
policy coming through. Whoever you speak
to on the street, I think there's a very
clear view that the government this time
around is very much determined. I think
what is really facilitating this view is
also since April, we have seen a
slowdown in sales momentum. So building
up six months of very good sales but
since April with the trade tension
kicking in sales has moderated along
with uh the home price data which has
weakened.
>> What's caused that?
>> I think in part because um we have had
six months of very strong data.
>> Um the market felt that maybe a bulk of
the pent-up demand has already been
taken up by the market and then of
course we have trade tensions kicking in
back in April. So I think it's a
combination of factor but more
importantly issues about the market
feeling quite unsettled that home price
in some cities are still correcting.
>> What can we expect in terms of the next
sort of dates? I mean the polip bureau
me seems to be the next sort of pit stop
I guess. Do you think we're likely to
hear anything then? I'm never a
subscriber of um identifying dates
because we have learned over the years
that policies can really come anytime
but how the market is thinking about it
is is July could be a window end of
month but the other window of
opportunity is in November
>> okay
>> window for what like what what's what's
a realistic expectation to have
>> I think that in HSBC's view um we really
don't expect anything very meaningful um
anything that has been announced has
been announced since 2024
>> right We have had rate cuts. We have had
down payment cuts. The relaxation of
home purchase relaxations. All of them
is there. So I think at the moment
what's very important is for the
government to really execute. Now I
think the one key aspect is inventory
acquisition. If the government can push
through, accelerate and maybe do it in a
more aggressive manner that can actually
move the needle.
>> Okay.
>> What are you expecting out of this
earning season? We've already heard some
profit alerts from the likes of Van and
the like. How do you separate between
who's going to do well, who's not?
>> We don't project intram earnings because
it seems there's no way to do so. But I
think what we can point to is the base
effect. I think in first half 2024, uh
we have had companies like CRAN, we have
had companies like CND that had
generally quite a low base. So what that
means is that first half of this year
should be quite favorable for them. On
the contrary, Kohi had a high base, same
period last year. So what that means is
that the market generally would be more
cautious in terms of thinking about what
they can deliver during the period
>> in terms of which city tiers are doing
better than others. In other words, tier
one over the rest or is it what price
points are doing well within say if it's
tier one that's doing well within that?
What price points are doing well? What
segments do you think stand out to you?
>> It's going to be a luxury. Luxury held
up very well and actually surprise us
through the down cycle.
>> Okay. We have been in and out of China
the last two months. We went to Beijing,
Shanghai. What we actually learned is
that if you're in a luxury market that
caters to upgraded housing demand, you
will sell through and in some instances
you can actually raise prices as well.
>> Okay.
>> What are your I guess assumptions for
housing demand moving forward? I think
Goldman had a line just a few weeks ago,
but you know, they're going to stay
around 75% of the peak.
>> Yeah. How are we going to be talk
looking at this this sector here in many
come months or years time? How do you
compare that to 2017?
>> I'm actually quite constructive. Um I'm
quite optimistic because I feel that the
pain is already behind us. 2024 should
be a floor. Um this year we're
projecting for volume to be flat to
maybe down 5% or so. But of course it
really depends on the momentum the next
couple of months and if there is going
to be um more meaningful policies coming
through. Uh what I think the market
should really focus on at the moment is
of course there's going to be a lot of
pain. is very convenient to still be
quite negative on China property. But I
think that what the market has not
really focused on and that's really
going to make a difference is the
decoupling what we've seen in the tier
one cities
>> um tier 2 cities new home versus
secondary home but even within the top
tier cities there are properties that
won't probably ever sell the there are
properties that are still highly sought
after and that actually has a positive
pricing momentum.
>> Right. Yeah. because we you know us in
the media we we operate based on data
that's given and released and you know
sometime you know one of the most uh
frequent data points that we get is you
know the 70 cities right and I wonder
how useful that is looking at this
market wholesale when to your point you
will miss the good story if you simply
focused in uh on that so what then do we
pay attention to like what do you pay
attention to
>> I look at this data this data is
important because I the market look at
this data very very closely so they
would determine uh the the market
movement but what I also pay attention
to is increasingly um top down
fundamentals what are the big themes in
the market the big theme is we're in a
lower for longer rate environment but
the bigger theme from a realistic
perspective is we have a supply squeeze
>> um why I say that is because when you
look at two data point you know uh new
starts versus home sales new starts down
70% % from the peak home sales down give
or take just around 50%.
>> So what that means is that in a market
whereby no one is really buying a lot of
land bank you just really don't have a
lot of quality new builds. Um but more
importantly I think going bottom bottom
up deeper that's very very helpful for
us in terms of formulating what we think
would help the market navigate through a
recovery where we can actually think
about which developers can capitalize on
emerging opportunities.
>> Right. And just very quickly, are
clients and investors receptive to that
good news because largely, you know, the
the China property story was negative
wholesale to many people and I wonder
how receptive people are now to some of
the bright spots there.
>> They are very receptive. They are just
not positioned that way. They're
verbally, you know, very very very
positive. But I think what happened the
last couple of years still making them a
little bit nervous. There's still that
bitter taste. Um but I think if we look
at the performance of some of the key
stocks that we like um for some of them
right even though they don't really
understand that story they are just
still going in just because they don't
really want to miss the boat.
>> Yeah. Okay. At least you they've signed
up for the gym. They just need to go
now. Michelle, thank you so much.
Michelle Quark, the head of Asia real
estate research at HSBC. We'll be back
in a couple of minutes.
[Music]
The world is reconfiguring itself and uh
we are a company and we just have to we
have to adapt to whatever the world's uh
uh trade and tax and tariff conditions
are. Uh there were there were trade
taxes and tariffs before I came into
Nvidia. There will be trade tariffs and
taxes after I leave Nvidia. And so so
this is just a this is something we all
have to adapt to.
>> Uh yeah, my script says that was Jensen
Hu. I don't need to say that. I think
everyone knows who he is. Uh the latest
there coming through. Of course, he's in
Beijing currently. Let's bring in our
tech correspondents, Animal Jewelers in
Taipei for us. Bill, it it's certainly a
win business in PR for Nvidia, but
what's but we don't know yet how long
that will actually last.
Yeah, and I think you also sort of got
that context from Jensen Wong when he
was speaking yesterday with reporters in
Beijing. But really, it's trying to
understand how much of that potentially
lost revenue. So, analysts have been
thinking it could have been up to 15
billion in revenue for 2025. How much of
that can now be recouped as a result of
of this prospect that they're going to
be able to send H20 chips once again. He
was saying again they're still deciding
that reaching out of course to their
customers or would be customers to try
and understand that demand potential. Uh
but but we had a note actually out from
JP Morgan just in the last few minutes
saying that this is incrementally
positive for some of the cloud operators
in China as well. So again just trying
to understand the demand dynamics. I'm
sure he's meeting with a lot of
customers as well.
>> Yeah certainly trade and tariffs will be
a focus when TSMC reports a little give
us a preview real quick.
Yes, we've got the earnings coming up in
a couple of hours time from now and as
you said that focus on on anything they
say around tariffs trade is going to be
really important. We do understand that
Taiwan is thinking that a trade deal
with with the US is possible before
August 1, but also trying to understand
would they be looking to expedite any of
their capex in the US given the
incentives that are in place.
>> Bel thank you so much. We got plenty
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are hanging at lunch break in just a
moment and you are seeing the nicke uh
they're slightly to the downside. You
know, there's not a whole lot going on
in the equity space except, you know,
really one company that really made it
to big news here this morning. Seven and
I of course with Kushtart abandoning
that takeover bid. So a lot of questions
of what's next for 7 and I can they
actually do so alone uh and really
unlock shareholder value. The stock is
down. We're off some of the lows but
we're still seeing declines of about 7%
in Tokyo this morning. Dave,
>> yeah, the inconvenient truth. The uh
let's have a look at the region here.
You know what? I'm just going to make
this short. There's really nothing
happening. We're flat on the benchmark
and there's no volumes coming through
right now. So let's talk politics. Why
not? You have the Australian Prime
Minister Anthony Albanesei of course is
visiting Chungdu last leg of course of
his six-day visit to Milan China. He was
joined in Beijing and Shanghai by a
delegation of business and academic
leaders. Now both countries say that
they have agreed to boost exchanges and
navigate their differences wisely.
Joining us now is a member of the
Australian delegation. Sha Sharon
Pickering is the vice chancellor and
president at Monash University. Uh
Sharon,
uh thank you for joining us. Just give
us a sense of the how was the trip? Tell
us how things went.
>> Look, thanks so much for having me. The
trip went incredibly well. There's a lot
of uh developed mutual understanding.
There's a lot of long-standing
relationships. With the relationship
being stabilized, it's great for all
business, but it's particularly terrific
for education uh institutions such as
MES and other universities that have got
long-standing relationships not only
with China, but with nations right
across our region and indeed around the
world.
A
>> and can you tell us a bit more about
what this means, you know, from Chinese
students coming to Australia, for
example, to study? IA have you seen an
uptick or more pro prospect of students
from the mainland coming to Australia to
study?
>> So what's really important to us is to
understand international education in a
multifaceted way. While Chinese students
coming to Australia is an important part
of this. Australian students going to
China is equally important because what
education is all about is developing
those people-to-people relationships,
those networks and importantly that
understanding that can form the the glue
between nations and across regions and
that that remains uh stable uh despite
what might happen between broader
relationships or or geopolitical shifts.
The way that we develop that
understanding together is important and
if that remains stable then everyone can
have confidence. Families in China
wanting to send their students uh abroad
uh to universities such as me can have
really high confidence. Students
traveling from Australia to China to
develop understanding of our largest uh
trading uh partner can occur. And of
course all of the relationships around
some of the big challenges that we all
face can occur. Uh issues around the
energy transition around the development
of greater decarbonization technologies,
health innovation and so on. All of
those things uh can occur if relations
remain settled and stable.
>> Sharon, what does that pipeline then
look like? the the flow of students to
to mainland China from Australia and
what do you think if if if it's still
not clear at this point what do you
think needs to happen to open up that
avenue even further?
So, we've certainly seen uh uh an
increase in demand for highquality
Australian education. As a top 50
university, like other top 50
universities around the world, uh we do
enjoy strong demand from students who
are looking for that really highquality
uh educational uh experience. We want to
make sure that that continues to be a
trusted uh focus for where they want to
come and enroll. And at we very much
welcome the best students from right
around the world uh to our shores.
Chinese students do make up a
significant uh proportion of uh our
international enrollments and that's
partly because of where we sit in the
region. But it's also about where we sit
uh as a university along with other
leading universities uh around the
world. Families and students want the
very best education to be able to go on
in competitive uh job markets and
likewise to be able to be really
successful. And we want to be able to
give young people that foundation in
life. But what's really important to us
at MES is we want to be able to give our
students a really transformative
experience. So it's not just about
getting a degree. It's about forming
friendships and all of those other
things that really matter. A really
strong understanding of our region,
really strong industry experience and so
on.
>> Sharon, we've seen a lot of turmoil when
it comes to higher education in the US.
Whether it's President Trump uh putting
scrutiny on on visas uh for
international students uh to even
slashing science and university funding
as well. Is this an opportunity for
Australia do you think to try to attract
more students uh from the US or even
from China to to study in Australia?
>> So I'm not sure whether you have
children but I've got children that are
around university age and not simply as
a vice chancellor as a mother. All
families want to be sure that when they
send their children abroad that they are
welcome and that they are and that they
are safe and that they can settle into
their study and do really well. So what
all families want like my family, like
your families, like many families around
the world, they want to make sure that
when they send their student abroad uh
for a really transformative experience,
they can do so in a really stable uh
environment. So I think the more settled
uh visa arrangements can be more settled
processes can be more settled the
overall settings can be then you will
find that though that the demand uh
grows and grows
>> right so h have you seen students at
least a pick up an interest as far as
your your side of the world is concerned
Sharon
>> so it's probably a little bit early to
uh to be certain around that because we
run a slightly different academic year
to the northern hemisphere. So when many
of your students in the northern
hemisphere start in September in
Australia most not all but most students
do start earlier in the year around
February March time. So we probably
won't be able to answer that question
with great certainty until for probably
about another six months or so until we
actually see how much of a shift there
has been as a result of other changes in
other parts of the world.
>> Sharon, thank you. Sharon, it's great to
have you. Sharon Pickering, their vice
chancellor and president at Monache
University. Subscribers can watch us
live and see our past interviews on our
interactive TV function, TV go. You can
also dive into any of the securities or
bloom functions that we talk about and
become part of the conversation by
sending us instant messages. Check it
out at TV go. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, to uh a big scoop now from
Bloomberg. We've learned that New World
is looking to sell its flagship 11 Skies
Airport Mall in Hong Kong to ease
liquidity pressures and sources say the
company has initiated early stage talks
with the Hong Kong airport authority on
its plans. Let's bring up Bloomberg
conglomerates consumer and gaming
reporter Shirley Jiao. Also want to
bring in Trista Lu, our credit reporter,
talking a little bit more about this
talk about whole bad bank story, which
we'll get to a little bit later on. But
Shirley, first and foremost, tell us a
little bit more about what we know so
far about this potential potential uh
sale that they're looking at.
>> Right. So, what we learned from sources
is that New World is in early
considerations to sell the 11 Sky Mega
Mall project near Hong Kong's
International Airport. We learned that
the valuation for the project is about
15 billion Hong Kong dollars to 17
billion Hong Kong dollars. Considering
New World um built the project for about
20 billion Hong Kong dollars, a sale
would likely be at a loss. We also
learned that New World has had some
early discussions with Hong Kong's
airport authority. Um our understanding
is that um they need to be in close
communications with the authority
because the mall is on a site leased
from the authority and it's part of the
Hong Kong government's broader plan to
turn the air airport area into a
commercial center.
>> What would be the significance if a
transaction does go through and have any
uh potential names emerged here as
potential buyers or 15 billion as you
point out? So, we haven't heard about
any potential buyers, but any sale, even
if at a loss, would help New World ease
its liquidity issue right now. So, New
World has much higher debt level than uh
other major Hong Kong developers, and
it's seeking urgent refinancing at the
moment. It just completed a record 11
billion US refinancing, and it's now
seeking a new loan of about$2 billion
US. and it's also seeking to divest from
its mainland uh properties. So we can
feel a sense of urgency here.
>> Shirley, thank you so much. Shirley Jaw,
there are Bloomberg conglomerates and
consumer gaming report. And on the
broader theme here is right
non-performing loans, debt burdens.
>> Is there a corporate level fix or do we
need to entertain a sort of more uh
systemic fix here as it pertains to
that? So you have non-performing loans
at Hong Kong lenders. Let me just give
you some statistics. have swelled to a
point that some in the industry have
floated the idea of maybe a bad bank
being a good idea. Um sources have told
us that a concept could actually face
some hurdles here. Let's bring in uh
Crystal Law of course who we is here
with us on set to talk us through this.
So tell us more about what kind of
conversations are taking place
around this around this concept. So we
heard from sources that landers
including Hansen ban and ban of
communication had held uh engaged with
advisory firms and held early discussion
to talk about whether they can set up a
special vehicle to buy uh that load
loan. So um that's um actually leads by
this banks and I think right now banks
are thinking whether there's a creative
way to help them to offload some um
non-performing loan off their balance
sheet. a lot of speculation right now.
How realistic is it? Can it really come
true?
>> Well, you know, banks are thinking about
more creative way to solve this problem.
But right now, the discussion is still
driven by banks. So, we really need to
wait and see like how other banks and uh
Hong Kong regulator will react to this.
But um as um David mentioned earlier
that the the number is not good and
maybe the reality is worse than what we
seeing right now cuz some uh properties
valuation has not really reflected on
Ben's books because there are few
transaction nowadays. So um I think
there's an urgent there but we really
need to wait and see how regulator react
to this.
>> Okay Trista thank you so much. Trista
Shin Law there our China credit uh
reporter. Yeah, let's get to the latest
when it comes to US bank earnings as
well. Goldman Sachs has posted the best
stock trading quarter in Wall Street
history with second quarter equities
revenue hitting 4.3 billion. Now, that's
about 600 million above analyst
forecast. Strong gains in intermediation
and financing also drove profit past
expectations. JP Morgan racked up $30
billion profit in the first half, more
than double its closest rival and
widening its lead over Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley in investment banking
revenue. Its market value now exceeds
that of Bank of America, City, and Wells
Fargo combined, but CEO Jamie Diamond
says all its competitors are growing and
expanding, and fintech companies are
plotting to take big chunks of JP
Morgan's business. Now let's stay with
US banks and sort of the big story
overnight was around the Fed and Jay
Powell. Now Brian Moahan of course out
of Bank of America is stressing that the
importance of an independent Fed as the
longunning rift here between well yeah
President Trump and of course Jay Powell
continue to intensify. Now speaking to
Bloomberg he also discussed his
company's second quarter earnings beat.
Have a look.
This quarter was the trickiest quarter
to get through because year-over-year we
finally got some NI growth, but
year-over-year the markets business
doing strong. So expense growth was a
little more robust. That'll get line and
then you'll see NI drop to the bottom
line and it will set up for 2026 with
even more growth.
>> When you talk about 2026, one of the
things we're going to have is and all
likely a new Fed chair. There's been a
lot of talk even today in Washington
about the Fed chair and you've said you
believe in an independent Fed, but if in
fact President Trump uh gets his wish as
is his right under law to appoint a new
chair who will be more in line with his
views, he said he thinks the interest
rate really should be at 1% or even
below that. Is that good for Bank of
America? Is that good for the economy?
>> Well, let me make two things. One is
you're absolutely right. uh in May of
next year, the term of the current Fed
chair ends after being reappointed. And
you it's the right of the elected uh uh
president to appoint the next uh
successor and go through uh Congress.
And I think in that dialogue around
that, there'll be a lot of dialogue
about okay, how do you set interest
rates? What do you think about interest
rates? Because the Fed is an independent
agency and they're they're meant to be
outside the purview of the executive and
the Congress. they are called to task
and they're monitored and they're and
they're reviewed and all the things, but
the real reality was is set up to be
independent. So, our central bank in
America was independent. So, I think no
matter who gets in, they're going to
look at it and have to look at the facts
and make a decision because if you drop
rates too far, inflation may kick up and
then you're going to have to raise them
back quickly. On the other hand, if you
think the prior Fed has been slow to
lower rates, you might lower them
faster. Our team believes that the Fed
will lower rates in the second half of
next year by 100 basis points. no change
until then because inflation's still
going through the system. You that
brings the Fed funds rate down closer to
three, which they think is probably more
of a a long-term rate and frankly is
more similar to what we had for most of
American history. What's been unusual is
the period after the global financial
crisis, a very low interest rate
structure. That is really not a good
place to be. Honestly, we we'd rather
have a higher interest rate structure, a
little more inflation, a little more
robust e economic growth. So, I think
everybody has to be a little careful
about keeping that engine going.
And that was the Bank of America CEO
Brian Moham speaking with Bloomberg's
David Weston. There we got plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, it is the summer, so it is
graduation season in China. And for all
you Tiger moms out there and really
sizing up the starting salaries of elite
university graduates,
>> this this story and this column might be
year for you after years and often a
fortune. You know, you've been pouring a
lot of money into academic success,
right? Does it all kind of work out?
>> Let's bring in Shulie Red, a Bloomberg
opinion columnist. she's been kind of
crunching the numbers and really asking
just how much Chinese university uh
levers should be making and joining uh
and really be as they join the the the
workforce and the like. What did you
find, right? How much for example should
a Chinua University graduate be making
right now?
>> To be honest, I was very surprised how
little they are making. Uh a Chinua
graduate with three years of work
experience can on average expect to make
just shy of $35,000 US a year. And uh
that doesn't seem like very much because
most Chinua grads that coming to the job
market, they have at least a master's
degree. 80% of Chinua graduates with a
bachelor's degree. They continue on to
to to achieve more advanced studies. And
then also Chinua has a lot of the so-cal
majors basically information technology
and finance. So we should expect at
least perhaps 40 to 50% of Chinua grads
uh being in technology or finance
industry. And to me $ 35,000 US dollars
a year doesn't seem very much because
you can get that 10 years ago.
>> Is it is this a reflection of
well the current state of the job market
or is it more a reflection of structural
changes taking place? I guess
>> I think it's both. So when I was uh
talking to some people about how little
Chinua graduates are getting paid, uh I
got a lot of push back. Uh employers
basically say that uh they don't look at
Chinua per se that that way like a big
companies like Huawei and Alibaba. They
will regularly recruit at the
universities so-called 985 universities
basically the 39 best universities in
China. And once you pass that na fight
uh hurdle, everyone is on the same
starting line and the companies they
want you to prove yourselves before
paying you more money. And also what we
are seeing this year is that uh from all
these Chinese technological
breakthroughs, you don't have to have a
chinua uh degree to to be innovative,
right? The the chief executive of Mayus,
he didn't go to Chinua. He went to uh
Huaong uh Huaong Science and Technology
in Wuhan. and then the the founder of uh
unitary robotics that makes those uh
dancing robots, right? He went to a
really you could say community college
uh community college in in Shanghai. So
so the the society that that talent pool
is widening and then the society is
becoming more diverse and the Chinua
gets you to into the talent pool after
graduation but it doesn't necessarily
command so much of a price premium as 10
years ago.
>> That's so interesting.
>> Yeah. Well, the you know when when
parents look at how much they pay for
their children's education sometimes
it's you measure it by how much it is as
an investment and I wonder whether we
need to be looking at it through the
same lens these days. I think to your
point you're making right to you know
people are comparing themselves to Manis
AI for example but you're comparing
yourself to not really your average
student are you?
>> That's right. And then there there has
been a lot of uh discussions with fellow
tiger moms basically saying do I get
good value for money from all the tiger
parenting. And the one school of thought
is like why am I spending millions uh
trying to get my kid to Chinua or
Beijing University. Maybe they are not
the material. I am better off say buying
an apartment for them in Shanghai or
Beijing. And when they grow up they can
decide what to do with that money. Uh I
mean like if you just do become like
social media influencers uh they can get
paid 156,000 yen a month just showing
that they're doing nothing handing out
every day you know like they they're
start to have a bit of a uh price
calculation in China we have been
talking a lot about price wars the
notion of evolution yes uh like the the
the involution and the price wars in
China and people are also asking what's
the value for money, right? Like what's
the value of all that education? What
does it get me?
>> It gives you food for thought, right?
>> And
>> it's not all about getting that flashy
degree maybe.
>> Yeah. Or teach them how to what did Elon
Musk do to his kids? Teaching them how
to solve problems instead of teaching
them, right? Like wasn't that Yeah.
>> Some of the
>> in the world of AI goes right too
>> as well. Not do anything.
>> Look at us.
>> Julie, thank you.
>> We just talk. Our Bloomberg column is
Julian.
>> Everyone writes everything for us.
>> Um yeah, and I you know I I'm not much
of a tiger mom either. I thought I would
be, but I'm not. Uh TSMC though, that's
the one to watch.
>> High expect Speaking of high
expectations.
>> Uh let's take a look. The options
traders are just going nuts on this,
right? on what really could come out
today
>> because it's indicative of obviously so
the last two quarters that TSMC came out
with earnings you know the focus on
capex and I think capex on average was
up 95%
on average in the last two quarters and
that that is indicative of course of the
AI play and to what extent can the
guidance be good enough to then
uh propel the AI sort of rally given the
latest leg that we've seen out of Nvidia
right so something good from TSM MC
could extend that rally even further
despite valuations being stretched. In
this case, I think TSMC is at or near
record highs and its valuation on the
Taiwan listing is nearly a trillion
dollars already at this point in time.
>> Yeah, I mean 44% from the lows uh back
in liberation day, right? So, we are
certainly seeing a a tremendous sort of
rally here. There are still some
concerns analysts say whether it's the
tariff or margin uncertainties, but
overall, you know, expect maybe things
to look a bit better in the second half
there. So I think people are expecting
maybe that fullear guidance. That's one
thing to watch whether they actually
raise it and if they actually even hint
at even hikes when it comes to product
prices too.
>> Okay, that's coming out in a couple of
hours. The other stock we're tracking at
this point is out of Korea and yeah, so
talking all things K-pop entertainment
and the stock is up. The there's a story
that I think there's something that is
beyond that something that meets the eye
here. And of course certainly the
founder is said to be now facing a probe
for over IPO disclosures. You can read
about the story of course on your
Bloomberg terminal. There doesn't seem
to be any adverse market reaction though
at this point in time. Staying in Korea.
There's another stock that we're
tracking here as well. SK Heinix.
>> Yeah, we're watching some of these chip
stocks in particular in Korea. Goldman
basically saying that look the Nvidia
supplier you know you you got to look at
how competition is basically rising in
that space. But yeah, a dramatic move
there. We're down some 7% right now in
soul and biotech. We're getting a little
more news there in China.
>> Yes, we are looking at that and as you
can see substantial gains on your
screens and you know some of these names
by the way and guest we had of course
earlier on.
>> Yeah, this was one of a
>> uh 11% to the upside. We have some
progress being made as far as corporate
level is concerned but yeah anyway uh
we'll leave you with a look at aircraft
stocks and we'll tell you why maybe
tomorrow because that's it from us here
on the China show. Plenty more ahead
though. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]